---
layout: post
title:  "S&P '20: extended abstract"
date:   2020-01-09
categories: conference paper abstract
paper-title: "Binsec/Rel: Efficient Relational Symbolic Execution for Constant-Time at Binary-Level"
topic: "Binary Analysis; Symbolic-Execution; Verification of Cryptographic Implementations"
pdf: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.08788
---


## Motivation

**Timing channels** happen when timing variations in a program depend
on *secret* information. They can be exploited by an attacker to
recover secret information such as plaintext data or secret keys.

Consider for instance the `compare` function which compares a secret
string to a public string controlled by an attacker.
```c
int compare(char *secret, char *public, int length) {
    for(int i = 0; i < length, ++i) {
        if (secret[i] != public[i])
            return 0;
    }
    return 1;
}
```
Because the function `compare` returns early when `secret[i] !=
public[i]`, the attacker can **measure the execution time** of the
function with different values of `public` to try to guess the value
of `secret`.

More sophisticated attacked also exploit timing variations resulting
from the cache. For instance, an attacker can **monitor the cache** to
retrieve information about the **memory addresses** accessed by a
victim.

In this context, it is of paramount important to protect cryptographic
implementations from timing side-channel attacks. The
**constant-time** policy (CT) is a powerful countermeasure against
this kind of attacks and is already widely used to protect
cryptographic implementations ([BearSSL](https://bearssl.org/),
[NaCL](https://nacl.cr.yp.to/),
[HACL*](https://github.com/project-everest/hacl-star)). It consists in
designing the program in such a way that the **control-flow and the
memory accesses are independent from the secret**.

For instance, our `compare` function becomes:
```c
int ct_compare(char *secret, char *public, int length) {
    int result = 0;
    for(int i = 0; i < length, ++i) {
        result |= secret[i] ^ public[i];
    }
    return result;
}
```

## Problem
- Writing constant-time code is difficult as it usually deviates from
  traditional programming behaviors (for instance, it requires a lot
  of bitwise operations),
- Moreover the compiler can sometimes put a spoke in the developer's
  wheel by optimizing away constant-time protections (see
  [[1]](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8406587)). 
  
*This is why we need **efficient** verification tools for CT operating
at **binary-level**.*

Unfortunately existing techniques operate at a higher-level (C or
LLVM), or do not provide necessary guarantees for bug-finding and
verification, or do not scale on real-world cryptographic
implementations.

## Contributions

*We tackle the problem of designing an **efficient** tool that is both
able to **find bugs** or **verify** that a program is
**constant-time**, an which operates **binary-level**.*

In summary, this paper makes the following contributions:
* We design **dedicated optimizations** for constant-time analysis at
  binary-level.
* We propose a verification tool named **Binsec/Rel** and evaluate it
  against standard approaches on 338 cryptographic binaries. We report
  a ×700 speedup compared to standard approaches).
* We perform an **extensive analysis of CT at binary-level**: we
  analyze 296 cryptographic implementations previously verified at a
  higher-level, and replay known bugs in 42 programs (including
  **x86** and **ARM** binaries).
* We automate and extend a study on CT preservation by
  compilers. Interestingly, we discovered that `gcc -O0` and backend
  passes of `clang` with `-O3 -m32 -march=i386` introduce violations
  of CT that cannot be detected by LLVM verification tools, showing
  the importance of reasoning at binary-level.


## Further information

- See [the paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.08788)
- Presented @ [the 41st IEEE Symposium on **Security and Pricay**](https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/SP2020)

## References
- \[1\] [Simon L, Chisnall D, Anderson R. *What you get is what you C:
  Controlling side effects in mainstream C compilers*. (EuroS&P)
  2018.]((https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8406587))
