---
layout: post
title:  "Release 0.9.0 of BINSEC is out"
categories: releases binsec
date: 2024-05-01
github: https://github.com/binsec/binsec/releases/tag/0.9.0
keywords: Incremental solving, IR-level sub-expression elimination
---

*Work less, work better*. Experiments tend to show it is a good way to increase the productivity.
So, no shiny new feature today, but we shipped some improvements that may speed up the symbolic exploration!

On the agenda:
- take advantage of the incremental solving mode (`-sse-engine multi-checks`);
- welcome the IR-level sub-expression elimination pass (`-sse-cse`).

Overall, symbolic exploration spends most of its time in constraint solving.
Besides, **BINSEC** used to open a new solver session for each issued query.
But, let us now give a try to the incremental mode of SMT solvers. Within the `multi-checks` engine variant, **BINSEC** compares each new query with the previous one. If the latter is a parent of the former -- which often happens with the depth first search strategy -- **BINSEC** holds the session, both saving the setup time and thriving the prior solver knowledge.

Less usual, but when the emulation speed becomes the exploration bottleneck (e.g. *France CyberSecurity Challenge* [licorne](https://github.com/binsec/binsec/blob/master/doc/sse/fcsc_licorne.md#bonus)), you can now activate the common sub-expression elimination pass to optimize the **BINSEC** intermediate representation and, hence, reduce the number of processed micro-instructions.

Also, as a side announcement, we opened the [Discussions](https://github.com/binsec/binsec/discussions) section in the [GitHub](https://github.com/binsec/binsec) repository. Feel free to come and get help on how to use **BINSEC**.

Have a nice day :-)
